'''
SECTION A: Core Concepts & Architecture (1–10)

'''
#1. What is AWS API Gateway and how does it work with backend services like Lambda or HTTP endpoints?

Answer:

AWS API Gateway is a fully managed service for creating REST, HTTP, and WebSocket APIs. It handles request routing, authorization, throttling, caching, and monitoring, providing a serverless "API layer." When a client sends a request:
API Gateway matches the HTTP method and resource path.
Applies authorization, validation, throttling, logging.
Transforms the request via mapping templates if needed.
Invokes the backend (Lambda, HTTP endpoint, AWS service, or mock integration).
Processes the backend response using mapping templates.
Returns the response to the client.

#2. Differences between REST API, HTTP API, and WebSocket API in API Gateway

Answer:

REST API:
Feature-rich: supports VPC Link, WAF, usage plans, authorizers.
Higher latency and cost.
Ideal for enterprise-grade APIs.
HTTP API:
Lightweight, lower latency, and cheaper.
Supports JWT authorizers and Lambda proxy integration.
Lacks WAF (as of 2025), usage plans, VPC links.
Great for modern microservices.
WebSocket API:
Maintains persistent two-way connection.
Ideal for chat, real-time notifications.
Supports authorizers and Lambda integration.

#3. Key components of a REST API: resource, method, integration, stage

Answer:

Resource: URI path fragment (/users, /orders).
Method: HTTP verbs (GET, POST, PUT, DELETE).
Integration: Backend type (Lambda, HTTP, AWS service, mock).
Stage: Deployment environment (e.g., dev, test, prod) with configured logging, throttling, and caching.

#4. Supported backend integration types

Answer:

Lambda (proxy or custom).
HTTP/HTTPS endpoint.
AWS service (e.g., DynamoDB).
Mock (for testing).
For HTTP APIs: simpler, mostly proxy integrations.

#5. AWS_PROXY vs AWS (non-proxy) integration

Answer:

AWS_PROXY (Lambda proxy): sends full request context and expects a structured response from Lambda. Ideal for rapid development.
AWS (non-proxy): requires manual mapping templates for request and response transformations. Useful for legacy systems or when abstracting backend details.

#6. Role of a stage and support for versioning

Answer:

Stages represent API deployments, mapping to URLs. You can maintain separate environments (/dev, /test, /prod) and use them for versioning by assigning base paths like /v1 or /v2.

#7. Internal request routing flow

Answer:

Client sends request to https://.../resource.
API_gateway identifies resource and method.
Applies authorization, validation, mapping.
Invokes integration backend.
Receives, transforms, and returns response.

#8. Base path mapping & custom domains

Answer:

Custom domains (e.g., api.myapp.com) replace default domain. Base path maps segments (/v1, /v2) to API stages.
🪜 Console Steps:
API Gateway → Custom Domain Names → Create domain.
Upload SSL certificate via ACM.
Create base path mapping to an API and stage.
Update Route 53 alias record to domain.

#9. Deployment vs stage

Answer:

Deployment: Snapshot of API configuration.
Stage: Named endpoint (prod) pointing to a deployment. Multiple stages allow managing environments and rolling back easily.

#10. Invoking deployed API endpoint

Answer:

Use HTTP clients like curl, Postman, SDKs, or the AWS Console "Invoke URL" with standard methods (GET, POST) and supported content types like JSON and form-data.


##🔹 SECTION B: Configuration & Console Setup (11–20)

#11. Creating and deploying a REST API via Console

Steps:

API Gateway → Create API → REST API.
Define root resource → Create Resource.
Add Method → Select integration type → Configure.
Implement method details (mapping, request validation, auth).
Deploy → Choose existing or create a new stage.

#12. Method request & method response settings

Answer:

Method Request: define required params, headers, auth, request validator, API key requirement.
Method Response: specify expected status codes, headers, and body models.

#13. Enabling request validation

Steps:

Method → Method Request → set Request Validator.
Optionally define Models (JSON schema) for validation.

#14. Mapping templates definition

Steps:

Under Method → Integration Request/Response.
Add Mapping Template and choose content type.
Write VTL script to map payload.

#15. Simulating requests using Console "Test" tool

Steps:

Resources → Select Method → Test.
Enter sample request (headers, query params, body).
Click Test → View status code, headers, body, and logs.

#16. Configuring throttling at stage level

Answer:

Stages → Stage Editor → Default Method Throttling → set rate and burst. Also configure per-method throttling overrides if needed.

#17. Default method throttling vs usage plan throttling

Answer:

Default throttling: applied globally at stage-level.
Usage Plans: granular control per API key/client with quotas and individual rate limits.

#18. Enabling logging and X-Ray tracing

Steps:

Stage → Logs/Tracing → Enable CloudWatch Logs and select level.
Enable X-Ray Tracing.
Ensure IAM role has xray:PutTraceSegments.

#19. Enabling CORS and customizing preflight

Steps:

Resource → Actions → Enable CORS.
Configure Allowed Origins, Methods, Headers, and Max Age.
Review pre-generated OPTIONS method.
Redeploy to stage.

#20. Enabling/disabling caching

Steps:

Stage → Enable Cache toggle.
Set TTL (seconds).
Optionally override TTL at method level for finer control.


##🔹 SECTION C: Troubleshooting & Logging (21–30)

#21. Troubleshoot 403 Forbidden

Check:

API key missing or invalid.
IAM auth unauthorized.
Resource policy denying access.
Invalid/missing authorizer token.

#22. Common causes of 502 Bad Gateway and fixes

Malformed integration response or missing headers.
Backend errors (Lambda crash).
Incorrect mapping template.

Fixes:

Inspect backend logs.
Validate JSON.
Add required headers like Content-Type.

#23. Investigating high latency

Check CloudWatch metrics:
IntegrationLatency
Latency
Enable X-Ray for tracing.
Optimize mapping templates and reduce backend response time.

#24. CloudWatch logs and metrics

Execution Logs: from CloudWatch Logs
Access Logs: set via stage access log format.
Metrics: Count, Latency, Errors, IntegrationLatency, CacheHitCount

#25. Tracing requests using X-Ray

Enable X-Ray on API Gateway stage and Lambda.
View service maps and segment traces.
Pinpoint bottlenecks in end-to-end trace.

#26. Execution logs vs access logs

Execution logs: available per method invocation, useful for debugging mapping templates.
Access logs: summary of request details – method, path, status code, source IP.

#27. Resolving 429 Too Many Requests

Throttling exceeded.
Usage plan quota reached.
Resolution:
Increase rate or burst.
Enforce backoff/retry logic on clients.
Let API keys differentiate client tiers.

#28. Checking API key requirement

If Method Request shows API Key Required, requests missing key return 403. Check in Usage Plans and Method Request.

#29. Common CORS errors in browsers

Missing Access-Control-Allow-Origin.
Unconfigured OPTIONS method.
Missing allowed headers, methods, or credentials settings.
Add appropriate headers, enable credentials.
with Route 53 failover.

#30. Lambda not being invoked despite 200 response

Likely mock integration is enabled. Confirm correct integration type, deployment, and mapping template.

##🔹 SECTION D: Security & Access Control (31–40)

#31. Authentication and authorization options in API Gateway

IAM (SigV4)
Cognito User Pools (JWT)
Lambda Authorizer (custom auth)
API Keys (basic control)
Resource Policies (IP/VPC/account allow/deny)

#32. Implementing IAM-based control

Set Method Request’s Authorization to AWS_IAM. Client must sign with SigV4. Attach policy with permissions to execute-api:Invoke for the API.

#33. Lambda Authorizer configuration via console

Create Lambda for auth logic, then:
Under API → Authorizers → Create Lambda Authorizer.
Configure token or request type, TTL.
Attach to method(s) in Method Request → Authorization.

#34. Amazon Cognito and API Gateway

Create User Pool and App Client.
In API Gateway → Authorizers → Choose Cognito → specify pool, provider ARN.
Attach to methods. API Gateway validates JWT automatically.

#35. Resource policies & IP whitelisting

In API → Resource Policy, add JSON to allow only specific IP ranges. Console step: Resource Policy section → paste policy.

#36. Mutual TLS authentication

Console Steps:
Custom Domain Names → select domain → enable mTLS → upload CA truststore (PEM).
Attach domain to API.
Clients must present client certificates.

#37. Best practices for securing public APIs

Use JWT or IAM auth.
Enable throttling & WAF.
Audit using CloudTrail.
Sanitize inputs via request models.
Hide backend implementation details.

#38. Security headers in responses

Add via Integration Response mapping:
X-Content-Type-Options: nosniff
X-XSS-Protection: 1; mode=block
Strict-Transport-Security: max-age=31536000; includeSubDomains

#39. Restricting API to VPC or private network

Use Private APIs:
Create endpoint type Private.
Configure VPC endpoint.
Use VPC-only resource policy.
Access via ENI inside your VPC.

#40. Preventing abuse/brute-force attacks

Configure WAF with rate-based rules.
Use throttling and quotas.
Require API keys and authentication.
Enable CloudFront with WAF.

##🔹 SECTION E: Cost & Performance Optimization (41–50)

#41. API Gateway pricing structure

Charges include:

$3.50/million requests (REST), $1.00/million (HTTP).
Caching charges (per GB-hour).
Custom domain per hour.
Data transfer out.

#42. Cost-reduction strategies

Prefer HTTP APIs for simple use cases.
Enable caching to reduce backend calls.
Use regional endpoints for constant traffic.
Optimize payload size.
Use quotas and usage plans.

#43. When to choose HTTP APIs over REST APIs

Choose HTTP APIs if you need:
Lower latency
Lower costs
Basic features (JWT, proxy)
Avoid REST APIs when you don't need VPC link, WAF, or request validation.

#44. Effect of response caching on cost

Caches at English-level reduce Lambda invocations and data transfer.
Store frequently requested data via TTL.
Costs related to cache memory, but offset by compute savings.

#45. Latency differences: regional vs edge-optimized vs private

Edge-optimized: lowest latency for global clients (uses CloudFront).
Regional: low latency in same region.
Private: high security within VPC; accessible only from within.

#46. Usage plans help avoid surprise billing

Set quotas (requests/day/week/month).
Monitor overages.
Apply throttle so clients don’t exceed.

#47. Response compression improves performance

Enable gzip compression to reduce payload sizes. Set thresholds in Stage Settings (e.g., compress over 1 KB).

#48. Payload size impact on cost/performance

Large payloads increase request latency, data transfer cost, and may push into throttling. Use S3 presigned URLs.

#49. Recommended ways to avoid API Gateway/Lambda timeouts

Keep Lambda under 29s for sync workloads.
Use asynchronous flows (SNS, SQS, Step Functions) for long-running jobs.
Implement retries and exponential backoff.

#50. Configuring API Gateway for high availability

Use multiple stages/versions for safe rollouts.
Use edge-optimized endpoint + CloudFront.
Configure X-Ray, CloudWatch alarms, and dashboards.
Deploy in multiple regions
